DOCSP 13843: change a doc pg (#14)
mongodb/docs-golang: source/fundamentals/crud/write-operations/change-a-document.txt

=================
Change a Document
=================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to change documents in a MongoDB
collection using **update** and **replace** operations.

Update operations modify the fields that you specify in one or more
documents while leaving other fields and values unchanged. Replace
operations remove all existing fields except for ``_id`` in
one or more documents and substitute the deleted fields with new fields

> and values.

Author: I don't think there are any common errors, I just referenced the WriteError

.. _updateDocuments:

Update
------

> To update one document, use the ``UpdateOne()`` method, and to update

Reviewer: Suggestion: Can the method be linked to the API docs? I think an inline link makes more sense than to have a "for more information" part at the end of the section.

Applies to all instances.

Author: I could forego monospacing the first instance of each method name to link it inline?

Reviewer: Yea, I usually link the first/one mention of it and the rest remain monospaced.

multiple documents, use the ``UpdateMany()`` method. Each method takes
an **update document** that includes at least one **update operator**.
The update operator specifies the type of update to perform. The update
document also includes the fields and values that describe the change.
Update documents use the following format:

.. code-block:: go

   bson.D{{"<update operator>", bson.D{{"<field>", "<value>"}, 
                                       {"<field>", "<value>"}, ... }}, 
          {"<update operator>", ... }, ... }

See the MongoDB server manual for a :manual:`complete list of update operators
and descriptions </reference/operator/update-field/>`.

.. note:: Aggregation Pipelines in Update Operations

   If you are using MongoDB Version 4.2 or later, you can use aggregation
   pipelines made up of a subset of aggregation stages in update operations. For
   more information on the aggregation stages MongoDB supports in
   aggregation pipelines, see our tutorial on performing
   :manual:`updates with aggregation pipelines </tutorial/update-documents-with-aggregation-pipeline/>`.

> 

Reviewer: Suggestion: Before diving into the example, I think it's worth mentioning what happens if the operation is successful -- in this case, it means the document is updated and you can access its [UpdateResult](https://pkg.go.dev/go.mongodb.org/mongo-driver@v1.7.0/mongo#UpdateResult) 

Applies to Replace section too.

Author: I'm not sure if that's necessary given the new material I added to address https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/14#discussion_r690452455

Example
~~~~~~~

The following document describes an employee:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   {
      "_id" : 2158,
      "name" : "Mary Shelley",
      "department" : "Marketing",
      "role" : "Marketing Analyst",
      "bonus" : 2500,
      ...
   }

The following code shows how you can use ``UpdateOne()`` to:

- Locate the document with ``_id`` value 2158.
- Use the ``$set`` update operator to change the value of the ``name``
  field to "Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley" and the ``role`` field to
  "Marketing Director".
- Use the ``$inc`` update operator to increment the value of the
  ``bonus`` field by 2000.

.. code-block:: go

   filter := bson.D{{"_id", 2158}}
   update := bson.D{{"$set", bson.D{{"name", "Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley"}, 
       {"role", "Marketing Director"}}, {"$inc", bson.D{{"bonus", 2000}}}}

   result, err := collection.UpdateOne(context.TODO(), filter, update)

The following shows the updated document:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   {
      "_id" : 2158,
      "name" : "Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley",
      "department" : "Marketing",
      "role" : "Marketing Director",
      "bonus" : 4500,
      ...

>    }

Author: I included code on accessing those properties, but I think it looks a little out of place. LMK what you think!

.. _replacementDocument:

Replace
-------

To perform a replace operation, create a **replacement document**, which is the
document that you want to take the place of an existing document.
Replacement documents use the following format:

.. code-block:: go

   bson.D{{"<field>", "<value>"}, {"<field>", "<value>"}, ... }

Example
~~~~~~~

The following document describes a kitchen item:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   {
      "_id" : 2056,
      "item" : "Mug",
      "brand" : "Simply Ceramics",
      "price" : 2.99,
      "material" : "Glass"
   }

The following code shows how you can use a replace operation to substitute
this document with one that contains only the fields ``item`` with a
value of "Cup" and ``quantity`` with a value of 107:

.. code-block:: go

   filter := bson.D{{"_id", 2056}}
   replacement := bson.D{{"item", "Cup"}, {"quantity", 107}}

   result, err := collection.ReplaceOne(context.TODO(), filter, replacement)

The replaced document contains the contents of the replacement document
and the immutable ``_id`` field as follows:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   {
      "_id" : 2056,
      "item" : "Cup",
      "quantity" : 107
   }

> If no documents match the query filter in the update operation,

Author: accepted

=================
Change a Document
=================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

You can change documents in a MongoDB collection using **update** and
**replace** operations. Update operations modify only the fields that
you specify in one or more documents while leaving other fields and
values unchanged. Replace operations remove all existing fields in one

> or more documents and substitute the deleted fields with new fields and

Author: clarified this

values.

.. _updateDocuments:

Update
------

> To update one or more documents, create an **update document** that

Author: clarified this

includes an **update operator**, which specifies the type of update to

> perform and the fields and values that describe the change. Update

Author: I tried to split them up

documents use the following format:

.. code-block:: go

>    bson.D{{"<update operator>", bson.D{{"<field>", "<value>"}, {"<field>", "<value>"}, ... }}, {"<update operator>", ... }, ... }

Author: I'm not sure what you mean-- see my fix and lmk if it addresses it!

>    bson.D{{"<update operator>", bson.D{{"<field>", "<value>"}, {"<field>", "<value>"}, ... }}, {"<update operator>", ... }, ... }

Reviewer: yes it does 😄

   

You can use one or more of the following update operators in your update
document:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 40 60

   * - Update Operator
     - Description

   * - ``$set``
     - replaces the value of a field with a specified value or creates a new
       field with a specified value

   * - ``$inc``
     - increments or decrements field values

   * - ``$rename``
     - renames fields

   * - ``$unset``
     - removes fields
     
   * - ``$mul``

>      - multiplies the value of a field by a specified number

Reviewer: Suggestion: There are 9 update operators, so I think it's a bit awkward to omit the ones not already here. And since the link right under this table has all the operators, a brief description then linking to it should be enough.

Author: got it

See the MongoDB server manual for a :manual:`complete list of update operators
and descriptions </reference/operator/update-field/>`.

.. note:: Aggregation Pipelines in Update Operations

   If you are using MongoDB Version 4.2 or later, you can use aggregation
   pipelines made up of a subset of aggregation stages in update operations. For
   more information on the aggregation stages MongoDB supports in
   aggregation pipelines, see our tutorial on performing
   :manual:`updates with aggregation pipelines </tutorial/update-documents-with-aggregation-pipeline/>`.

Example
~~~~~~~

The following document describes an employee:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   {
      "_id" : 2158,
      "name" : "Mary Shelley",
      "department" : "Marketing",
      "role" : "Marketing Analyst",
      "bonus" : 2500,
      ...
   }

The following code shows how you can use the ``$set`` update operator to
change the value of the ``role`` field to "Marketing Director" and the
``$inc`` update operator to increment the value of the ``bonus`` field

> by 2000:

Reviewer: Suggestion: Since multiple things are happening, I think a bulleted list explaining each line of code would make it easier for a reader to follow.

Author: fixed

.. code-block:: go

   filter := bson.D{{"_id", 2158}}
   update := bson.D{{"$set", bson.D{{"role", "Marketing Director"}}}, {"$inc", bson.D{{"bonus", 2000}}}}

   result, err := collection.UpdateOne(context.TODO(), filter, update)

> The updated document should resemble the following, with updated values in
> the ``role`` and ``bonus`` fields and all other values unchanged:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following shows the updated document:
```
Suggestion: I don't think it's necessary to state the fields updated since it was just mentioned above.

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   {
      "_id" : 2158,
      "name" : "Mary Shelley",
      "department" : "Marketing",
      "role" : "Marketing Director",
      "bonus" : 4500,
      ...
   }

> If the query filter fails to match any documents in a collection, the
> update operation doesn't make any changes. You can configure an update
> operation to perform an :doc:`upsert </fundamentals/crud/write-operations/upsert>`, 
> in which the operation attempts to perform an update but inserts
> a new document if no documents are matched:
> 
> .. code-block:: go
> 
>    opts := options.Update().SetUpsert(true)
>    ...
>    result, err := collection.UpdateOne(context.TODO(), filter, update, opts)
> 
> You can't modify the ``_id`` field of a document nor change a field to
> a value that violates a unique index constraint. For more information
> about unique index constraints, see the MongoDB server manual entry on :manual:`unique indexes </core/index-unique/>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If zero documents match the query filter in the update operation, updateOne() makes no changes to the preceding document. See our <TODO: link> upsert guide to learn how to insert a new document instead of updating one if no documents match.
```

Suggestion: I think this section can be simplified since this information will be duplicated on the upsert page.

Author: accepted

document also includes the fields and values that describe the change.
Update documents use the following format:

.. code-block:: go

   bson.D{{"<update operator>", bson.D{{"<field>", "<value>"}, 
                                       {"<field>", "<value>"}, ... }}, 
          {"<update operator>", ... }, ... }

See the MongoDB server manual for a :manual:`complete list of update operators
and descriptions </reference/operator/update-field/>`.

.. note:: Aggregation Pipelines in Update Operations

   If you are using MongoDB Version 4.2 or later, you can use aggregation
   pipelines made up of a subset of aggregation stages in update operations. For
   more information on the aggregation stages MongoDB supports in
   aggregation pipelines, see our tutorial on performing
   :manual:`updates with aggregation pipelines </tutorial/update-documents-with-aggregation-pipeline/>`.

Example
~~~~~~~

The following document describes an employee:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   {
      "_id" : 2158,
      "name" : "Mary Shelley",
      "department" : "Marketing",
      "role" : "Marketing Analyst",
      "bonus" : 2500,
      ...
   }

> The following code shows how you can use ``UpdateOne()`` to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example uses the ``UpdateOne()`` method to:
```

> - Locate the document with ``_id`` value 2158.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Match the document where the ``_id`` value is "2158".
```

> - Use the ``$set`` update operator to change the value of the ``name``
>   field to "Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley" and the ``role`` field to
>   "Marketing Director".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Change the ``name``
  field to "Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley" and the ``role`` field to
  "Marketing Director".
```

> - Use the ``$inc`` update operator to increment the value of the
>   ``bonus`` field by 2000.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Increment the value of the
  ``bonus`` field by 2000.
```

.. code-block:: go

   filter := bson.D{{"_id", 2158}}
   update := bson.D{{"$set", bson.D{{"name", "Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley"}, 
       {"role", "Marketing Director"}}, {"$inc", bson.D{{"bonus", 2000}}}}

   result, err := collection.UpdateOne(context.TODO(), filter, update)

> ``UpdateOne()`` and ``UpdateMany`` return an ``UpdateResult`` type that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``UpdateOne()`` and ``UpdateMany()`` methods return an ``UpdateResult`` type that
```

contains information about the update operation such as

> ``MatchedCount``, ``ModifiedCount``, ``UpsertedCount``, ``UpsertedID``.

Reviewer: Suggestion: I think this should be moved up to before the example section. And instead of listing exactly what the calls are, you can change it to a bulleted list explaining what each information is.

i.e. "The UpdateResult type provides the following information: "

Author: addressed

The following shows how to access the information in the
``UpdateResult`` type:

.. code-block:: go

   fmt.Printf("Documents matched: %v\n", result.MatchedCount)

>    fmt.Printf("Documents modified: %v\n", result.ModifiedCount)

Reviewer: Suggestion: I think you should incorporate this into your example above -- that way, you can show the output of your snippet.

   fmt.Printf("Documents upserted: %v\n", result.UpsertedCount)
   fmt.Printf("_id of upserted document: %v\n", result.UpsertedID)

The following shows the updated document resulting from the preceding update operation:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   {
      "_id" : 2158,
      "name" : "Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley",
      "department" : "Marketing",
      "role" : "Marketing Director",
      "bonus" : 4500,
      ...
   }

If multiple documents match the query filter passed to ``UpdateOne()``,
the method selects and updates the first matched document. If no
documents match the query filter in the update operation,
``UpdateOne()`` makes no changes to the document. See our **<TODO:
link>** upsert guide to learn how to insert a new document if no

> documents match the query filter.

Reviewer: Suggestion: I think this should be moved up too -- to before the example begins

Author: addressed

=================
Change a Document
=================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

You can change documents in a MongoDB collection using **update** and

> **replace** operations. Update operations modify specified fields in one

Reviewer 2: see https://docs.mongodb.com/meta/style-guide/writing/clarify-gerunds-participles/
```suggestion
**replace** operations. Update operations modify only the fields that you specify in one
```

or more documents while leaving other fields and values unchanged.
Replace operations remove all existing fields in one or more

> documents and substitute them with new fields and values.

Reviewer 2: the antecedent to `them` is slightly ambiguous. Do replace operations substitute fields? documents?

.. _updateDocuments:

Update
------

To update one or more documents, create an **update document** that
includes an **update operator**, which specifies the type of update to

> perform, and the fields and values describing the change. Update

Reviewer 2: see https://docs.mongodb.com/meta/style-guide/writing/clarify-gerunds-participles/
```suggestion
perform, and the fields and values that describe the change. Update
```

documents use the following format:

.. code-block:: go

   bson.D{{"<update operator>", bson.D{{"<field>", "<value>"}, {"<field>", "<value>"}, ... }}, {"<update operator>", ... }, ... }
   

You can use one or more of the following update operators in your update
document:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 40 60

   * - Update Operator
     - Description

   * - ``$set``
     - replaces the value of a field with a specified value or creates a new
       field with a specified value

   * - ``$inc``
     - increments or decrements field values

   * - ``$rename``
     - renames fields

   * - ``$unset``
     - removes fields
     
   * - ``$mul``
     - multiplies the value of a field by a specified number

> See the MongoDB server manual for a :manual:`complete list of update operators

Reviewer 2: the external references at the end of paragraphs or in their own paragraphs throughout use slightly different structures. Consider updating them all to:

For more information about {topic}, see {section title, linked} in the MongoDB Manual.

``$inc`` update operator to increment the value of the ``bonus`` field
by 2000:

.. code-block:: go

   filter := bson.D{{"_id", 2158}}
   update := bson.D{{"$set", bson.D{{"role", "Marketing Director"}}}, {"$inc", bson.D{{"bonus", 2000}}}}

   result, err := collection.UpdateOne(context.TODO(), filter, update)

The updated document should resemble the following, with updated values in
the ``role`` and ``bonus`` fields and all other values unchanged:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   {
      "_id" : 2158,
      "name" : "Mary Shelley",
      "department" : "Marketing",
      "role" : "Marketing Director",
      "bonus" : 4500,
      ...
   }

If the query filter fails to match any documents in a collection, the
update operation does not make any changes. You can configure an update
operation to perform an :doc:`upsert </fundamentals/crud/write-operations/upsert>`, 
in which the operation attempts to perform an update but inserts
a new document if no documents are matched:

.. code-block:: go

   opts := options.Update().SetUpsert(true)
   ...
   result, err := collection.UpdateOne(context.TODO(), filter, update, opts)

> You cannot modify the ``_id`` field of a document nor change a field to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can't modify the ``_id`` field of a document nor change a field to
```

a value that violates a unique index constraint. See the MongoDB server manual 
for more information on :manual:`unique indexes </core/index-unique/>`.

.. _replacementDocument:

Replace
-------

> To perform a replacement operation, create a **replacement document** that

Reviewer 2: this is called a "replace operation" elsewhere on this page. consider making this change for consistency.
```suggestion
To perform a replace operation, create a **replacement document** that
```

consists of the fields and values that you would like to insert in your
**replace** operation. Replacement documents use the following format:

.. code-block:: go

   bson.D{{"<field>", "<value>"}, {"<field>", "<value>"}, ... }

> A replacement documents is the document that you want to take the place of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A replacement document is the document that you want to take the place of
```

Reviewer 2: I think you can move this line up and combine it with the second to last sentence in the previous paragraph.

Author: agreed

an existing document that matches the query filter.

Example
~~~~~~~

The following document describes a kitchen item:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   {
      "_id" : 2056,
      "item" : "Mug",
      "brand" : "Simply Ceramics",
      "price" : 2.99,
      "material" : "Glass"
   }

> The following code shows how you can use a replace operation to replace

Reviewer 2: replace appearing twice in rapid succession reads awkwardly. consider:
```suggestion
The following code shows how you can use a replace operation to substitute
```

this document with one that contains only the fields ``item`` with a
value of "Cup" and ``quantity`` with a value of 107:

.. code-block:: go

   filter := bson.D{{"_id", 2056}}
   replacement := bson.D{{"item", "Cup"}, {"quantity", 107}}

   result, err := collection.ReplaceOne(context.TODO(), filter, replacement)

The replaced document contains the contents of the replacement document
and the immutable ``_id`` field as follows:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   {
      "_id" : 2056,
      "item" : "Cup",
      "quantity" : 107
   }

If the query filter fails to match any documents in a collection, the

> replace operation does not make any changes. You can configure a replace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
replace operation doesn't make any changes. You can configure a replace
```

operation to perform an :doc:`upsert </fundamentals/crud/write-operations/upsert>`, 
in which the operation attempts to perform an update but inserts
a new document if no documents are matched:

.. code-block:: go

   options.Replace().SetUpsert(true)
   ...
   result, err := collection.ReplaceOne(context.TODO(), filter, replacement, opts)

> You cannot modify the ``_id`` field of a document nor change a field to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can't modify the ``_id`` field of a document nor change a field to
```

=================
Change a Document
=================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to change documents in a MongoDB
collection using **update** and **replace** operations.

Update operations modify the fields that you specify in one or more
documents while leaving other fields and values unchanged. Replace
operations remove all existing fields except for ``_id`` in
one or more documents and substitute the deleted fields with new fields
and values.

A Note About ``_id``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Each document in a MongoDB collection has a unique and immutable ``_id``
field. You cannot use update and replace operations to modify the
``_id`` values. If you attempt to change this field, the update and

> replace methods return a `WriteError <https://pkg.go.dev/go.mongodb.org/mongo-driver/mongo#WriteError>`__.

Author: Replacing the links, but I don't think they will work until merged bc my snooty file isnt updated with the directive

an **update document** that includes at least one **update operator**.
The update operator specifies the type of update to perform. The update
document also includes the fields and values that describe the change.
Update documents use the following format:

.. code-block:: go

   bson.D{{"<update operator>", bson.D{{"<field>", "<value>"}, 
                                       {"<field>", "<value>"}, ... }}, 
          {"<update operator>", ... }, ... }

See the MongoDB server manual for a :manual:`complete list of update operators
and descriptions </reference/operator/update-field/>`.

.. note:: Aggregation Pipelines in Update Operations

   If you are using MongoDB Version 4.2 or later, you can use aggregation
   pipelines made up of a subset of aggregation stages in update operations. For
   more information on the aggregation stages MongoDB supports in
   aggregation pipelines, see our tutorial on performing
   :manual:`updates with aggregation pipelines
   </tutorial/update-documents-with-aggregation-pipeline/>`.
   
Return Values

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Author: I don't think there are any runtime errors

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Author: except the _id edit Write error mentioned earlier!

   result, err := collection.UpdateOne(context.TODO(), filter, update)
   fmt.Printf("Documents matched: %v\n", result.MatchedCount)
   fmt.Printf("Documents updated: %v\n", result.ModifiedCount)

The expected output of the preceding example is as follows:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   Documents matched: 1
   Documents updated: 1

The following shows the updated document resulting from the preceding update operation:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   {
      "_id" : 2158,
      "name" : "Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley",
      "department" : "Marketing",
      "role" : "Marketing Director",
      "bonus" : 4500,
      ...
   }

.. _replacementDocument:

Replace
-------

To perform a replace operation, use the `ReplaceOne() <https://pkg.go.dev/go.mongodb.org/mongo-driver/mongo#Collection.ReplaceOne>`__ method and
specify a **replacement document**, which is the document that you want
to take the place of an existing document. Replacement documents use the
following format:

.. code-block:: go

   bson.D{{"<field>", "<value>"}, {"<field>", "<value>"}, ... }

Return Values
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> ``ReplaceOne()`` returns an ``UpdateResult`` type that

Reviewer: Suggestion: I think you should link to the API docs for Update result here since it's the first mention in this section

contains information about the replace operation if the operation is
successful. The ``UpdateResult`` type contains the following properties:

- ``MatchedCount`` - the number of documents matched by the filter
- ``ModifiedCount`` - the number of documents modified by the operation
- ``UpsertedCount`` - the number of documents upserted by the operation
- ``UpsertedID`` - the ``_id`` field of the upserted document, or nil if
  no upsert was performed

If multiple documents match the query filter passed to ``ReplaceOne()``,
the method selects and replaces the first matched document. Your replace
operation will fail if no documents match the query filter. See our **<TODO:
link>** upsert guide to learn how to insert a new document if no
documents match the query filter.

Example
~~~~~~~

The following document describes a kitchen item:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   {
      "_id" : 2056,
      "item" : "Mug",
      "brand" : "Simply Ceramics",
      "price" : 2.99,
      "material" : "Glass"
   }

The following code shows how you can use a replace operation to substitute

> this document with one that contains only the fields ``item`` with a
> value of "Cup" and ``quantity`` with a value of 107:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this document with one that contains an ``item`` field with a
value of "Cup" and a ``quantity``field with a value of 107:
```
